Unknown Speaker  0:00  
All

Unknown Speaker  0:07  
right,

Unknown Speaker  0:15  
cool, okay, great. We

Unknown Speaker  0:23  
Okay, so let's be clear, the end goal of today, yeah, is to get waveforms, yeah, emulated, yeah, in jacks in a way that we'll be able to incorporate into the rest of our gym ecosystem. Yep, and we don't care too much about the nature of the way of of the neural networks. We used to emulate those waveforms. But in practice, following the lead of Cosmo power, yeah and and synthesizer Yeah, not synthesizer speculator, which are the same underlying Yeah, it's probably the place to stop.

Unknown Speaker  1:06  
I think I was just gonna get clone the Cosmo power. When I say, what network do they use as a starter, right? And get the papers too. Yeah, exactly. So just doing that to begin, I think is a very natural starting point. You can work in parallel here. Yeah, I've just made a project. I call this gym emulators. Cool. Let me just open up all My kind of project holders. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:51  
that US

Unknown Speaker  2:06  
Cool, good,

Unknown Speaker  2:14  
right? So I've been thinking actually quite a lot about waveforms over the last week or so, because, well, I have been solving ripple bugs, which has been really useful, because now I have a very good picture on a how to call Lau B, how, you know? So I'm sure that Claude knows how to work with Lao as well. But, yeah, maybe now I have a good picture. Like, you know, how do you actually make the comparisons? And I have a bunch of scripts that, because I've just been running them, that do all the mismatch calculations and shit like this. So, you know, we can provide all of those, is my point, and that should speed things up a lot. I also kind of understand the natural parameterization of Lao, which is not the natural parameterization of Jim, but that's fine, because you can always just do that outside. Right? What will be the key waveform paper, sir. So there's xphm paper which, yep, to go Yeah, X, pitch, M, you probably want the ripple paper, where they do the mismatch calculations, because that kind of showing how you develop a waveform, right, and how you compare it and how you benchmark it. Sink. What else? The Cosmo power paper, yeah, speculator, I now need to, yeah. So what else I think, to be honest, it may be one of the papers on the parameterization of the signals. So for example, like, I mean, one thing that's very clear after, what did they do? So I've just said, get x pitch and ripple. And kind of it does this. The first one is about retail price ripples, and then it says, imr, phenom, x, phi, yeah, I guess so. One thing is very clear, right? And this is easy enough to implement, is the correct thing to do is emulate the base waveform, which depends on as fewer parameters as possible, and then do the analytic stuff outside. So one good example of this is the fact that waveforms don't depend This is from ripple learning last week. Waveforms don't depend on F alone the frequency that you evaluate. They really the core one that they depend on is the mass times the frequency, which is why you can rescale everything by the mass. So actually you call a waveform with MF, and therefore you should train on a grid of MF, and then you can rescale just by changing the mass. This is exactly the kind of physical intuition we need to guide. Yeah, exactly the other things you can do, like distance is just one over DL. Like outside the phase is just like, plus, you know, feisty, all of the ripple the GitHub is also going to be useful, because they have a lot of these tests about how to compare and, like, some of the conventions that Lau has on, like, things like the phase. What else? Yeah, you probably don't want all of Lal inference, because it's massive. There's, there's one package within it is called Lao simulation. Is it possible to get that individual I have it, yeah. So I'll put all these things in a folder. So after that, four papers of

Unknown Speaker  5:38  
things that we want, so you can have a look at those. Yeah, and things that we want. So you can have a look at those. Yeah, good. So the ripple papers are ripple depressible. Hardware, recalibrate, yeah, yeah, straight back on, computationally efficient models for dominance, imr, phenom, x, h,

Unknown Speaker  5:58  
yeah, exactly. That's where they put their high modes in. I made quite good progress with TiVo by the other day on XP, which is, yeah, so we just sat down for like two hours on Friday, and so

Unknown Speaker  6:12  
got those now. So keep notes. I

Unknown Speaker  6:20  
works? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  6:29  
yeah. So again, one of the there's a simpler problem, which you can start with, which is x as, which is a line of spins, and that so Lau actually depends on the mass ratio eta, three spin components for the first black hole, three spin components for the second black hole. And that's basically it. Everything else you can do analytically outside. So it's a seven. It is a maximum 7d problem, and that's something I didn't really know before, but I'm now very confident on and actually like the fact that you have these beta j ends and phi j, all of that is a reparameterization of those six spin components, three for chi one, three for chi, two. So everything else reparameterises that. And you can do all of that outside very cheaply, right? So I think the most direct thing to do is, have, you know, train on those seven parameters. But there's a simpler problem, which is eta chi, 1z chi, 2z which is the aligned spin case. So there is a 3d problem that that reduces to that actually everything, like phenom D and all of this stuff, they are actually doing that basically and finot xas. So you know, that's just to say that there is a simpler problem that one can try, but it's quite a lot simpler in terms of the sort of thing we're thinking about, right? Because 3d emulation versus 70 emulation is not the same thing.

Unknown Speaker  7:59  
So here, yeah, please. Kay's one for Jim. Last week's large. So just get Lao simulation. It's all one word, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  8:12  
yeah, yeah, maybe actually not case one, get the GW Jax. I'm

Unknown Speaker  8:27  
the gate. Jim, for this project

Unknown Speaker  8:30  
is, if I What's that view? Is that clean enough? GW, Jack's team. I mean, case doesn't matter, right?

Unknown Speaker  8:42  
Yeah. Just because they have the recent patches on there, but they don't have it on the old one. This is now the like developed one. Remind

Unknown Speaker  8:59  
me, ripple is the subset of Jim. Do we need Jim?

Unknown Speaker  9:07  
No,

Unknown Speaker  9:09  
no, the only, there's only one bit of code I think we might want to write, which is an FFT, and we should maybe write that ourselves, because, as in what I think one question we might want to ask is, what's the best domain to train in? And one answer might be the time domain. So the reason I say that is I'm pretty sure that's what Alessio said he tried

Unknown Speaker  9:47  
another thing, just like an initial task that I think will be useful, just so that we get all the intuition for the problem is run xbhn on a grid of like, You know, pick a fiducial set of parameters and just vary one of them at a time, and just make the plot like, you know, like CL curves, right when you vary omega, M or something like that, just to understand what that looks like in the different domains. Because I think the key there is understanding smoothness, like, what are the right domains to work in? And this is why MF is a good idea, because you Yeah. And again,

Unknown Speaker  10:28  
there are good, if you extend that thinking, there are good reasons why it might be the frequency domain. That's a natural choice, because if you don't get the scaling with MF in the time domain, because it all gets mixed up, right? So you know the same signal, yeah, it will have the same morphology, but it'll be on a totally different time grid. So actually, you do have to learn that with the inter in with the emulator, whereas here you don't right in the frequency domain, you can actually do the scaling analytically. So I'm just trying to think of what like bottlenecks.

Unknown Speaker  11:02  
So the physics principles I'm hearing here, there's a couple of parameterization choices that we can motivate from knowing the physics use, choosing MF rather than F, yeah. And there's a couple of and then the standard trick of working in the Fourier domain, although there are techniques out there that that mix and match appropriately, but I think for now, in terms of minimum viable product, let's think about just the Fourier domain adoption. And

Unknown Speaker  11:34  
then there are choices in the Fourier domain, right? Because you can emulate the real elementary part, or you can emulate the amplitude in the phase. And those are different choices. That's why, I think one of the most useful plots initially might just be this, like vary one parameter. See how you know, how smoothly does the amplitude vary as a function of these parameters and stuff like this? What sort of dynamic ranges are we on? Like all of these questions. Just answer them quickly, and then we have our reference plots kind of for the rest of the and

Unknown Speaker  12:08  
then procedurally, showing this little tree. Yeah, obviously the handoff between the two, yeah, we want clear docs. And, yeah, yeah. Much. We need to commit things, but probably don't need to commit the actual repositories Those are, those are probably a bit large.

Unknown Speaker  12:42  
Yeah, exactly. No need for that. Papers. I think papers are useful, yeah? So we're not gonna edit those, right? I mean, yeah, nakas PDF is not a big download. That'd be fine. Just, I also think the reality is that, Yeah, you've got Cosmo power, good. It's

Unknown Speaker  13:22  
still better at pull requests than me. We had to rebase a branch the other day. I was gonna do that successfully in someone else's repository. That's I genuinely can't transport more what

Unknown Speaker  13:40  
please it,

Unknown Speaker  14:25  
yeah, recently, yeah, because now it's missing again. It does know what it's doing.

Unknown Speaker  14:40  
I was gonna say, like, just kind of let it sort it out how it wants to And so

Unknown Speaker  14:53  
I think the other thing I'll do is, function, read something.

Unknown Speaker  15:25  
Capture, hopefully, most of the things that you said, given the context of that, given it's also spent a bit of time rummaging around in GW, the current level of documentation is flawed.

Unknown Speaker  15:41  
Yeah, cool. I mean, the nice thing about it, this is a very well defined output task, right? Like get mismatch working. It's basically them. It's freaking out. I

Unknown Speaker  16:00  
it's actually quite a nice option for starting

Unknown Speaker  16:09  
you're supposed to be impressing people today. George, please don't do this. Don't nerf yourself. So all right, for some reason does struggle to keep track of where it is, yeah, because it's state stateless, and that's why it's developed this tick using Git, dash, c direction. Can we just make this better? No, so this is attached to chord itself, right? So we'd have to write our own whole agent. They are still innovating,

Unknown Speaker  16:45  
yeah, what I mean was like a skill or something.

Unknown Speaker  17:01  
No, one.

Unknown Speaker  17:08  
Yeah. So

Unknown Speaker  17:15  
what do you think the first task should be? So if we were doing it, yeah, we'd spend some time reading the various bits and pieces of the papers that we just downloaded to extract the detail of the emulators? Yeah, and you would first implement an emulator that did something very basic. To check that, before we start jumping into GW stuff, you check a really simple example that says, can you build an emulator that's actually quite a lot of work, because, in practice, the the speculator framework and the cosmic power Framework also involves that non trivial. PCA, yeah, I mean the other options we could try and see if we can reproduce. Reproduce the just try, can we do as well as data? But that requires that that itself is a relatively large of order, a few hours project, which you may want to waste time doing.

Unknown Speaker  18:36  
I was thinking of something so given that there's also going to be a kind of hour at least gap, the sooner we have a super robust simulation suite, right as in, that when we run Lao, we know we've really run Lao. Now I'm pretty sure I know how to do that, but just getting everything checked and generate a load of training data and store it somewhere that we can do the training and a script to generate that shouldn't take long, because loud doesn't take that long to run. But just then we have, you know, a training data set that we can use. And I just, I would, just store the complex train so you can either do uncle treatment phase or in the Magic Art or do some Fourier transforms.

Unknown Speaker  19:20  
So whatever happens, we're going to see waveforms train. That's my point. And where do those come from? Are those just straight from LAO? Do we make those ourselves? Yeah. So does that mean we need to compile Lao here?

Unknown Speaker  19:30  
No, no, you they have a Python wrapper. You just, you just install Pip, install Lao suite.

Unknown Speaker  19:36  
Okay, and then that allows you to make way. Yeah. Now, if we just tell Claude code to go make me some waveforms. That's going to stop, yeah, but if it looks at ripple, it has it all in there. Okay, so ripple has and what about, sort of like typical ranges of parameters. So, I mean, I guess before we start on that, we would need to set out, we need to capture a summary of parameterizations and ranges, yeah, so which, again, I think it could look at the papers and read the ripple document like the ripple examples, and I can, I mean, We can point to those specifically

Unknown Speaker  20:19  
before we go

Unknown Speaker  20:22  
further, yeah, are there any other options? So we are saying we want we our assumptions are Cosmo power works fine, and that's that strategy generalized, non overfit way to the level that they play with those papers. So it should work for so that's a very easy Well, we could transfer that question, but there are some assumptions there that don't necessarily hold the other option. And those might not necessarily are because in general, it can be hard to reproduce others machine learning work because we don't have the same domain of expertise that Justin also does what I refer to his magic hands. So it might be worth also canvassing the literature and doing a deep research once we fleshed out the core project, and then getting closer to say, here's our project, and then asking, Okay, what are the, you know, industry standards far outside astronomy, that would solve this

Unknown Speaker  21:27  
project? Yeah, and this is why I do think having those kind of benchmarks and really understanding the simulation, so you can give that to Ford, and then say, hey, look, this is the basically full scope of the problem, which is I have, let's say we did amplitude and phase, as I say, we should, we should be overminded. But I have amplitudes that vary over five orders of magnitude that I need to fit over a dynamic range of frequency. That's like, you know, about 10 to the three something. It goes about point 001, to about point one, point to one, something like that. And I have a phase that varies by like, you know, order 100 to 200 radians in, you know, and you need to get both of those very precise in order to get mismatches at the level 10 to the minus 10. That's the sort of problem that we need. You need to solve. Okay, so I think we Get it somewhere. You

Unknown Speaker  22:22  
so

Unknown Speaker  23:00  
yeah,

Unknown Speaker  23:07  
yeah,

Unknown Speaker  23:12  
those are fine. The inclination, angle, yeah, okay, no, that's fine. That should be theta j and not beta. But that's not its fault. Maybe.

Unknown Speaker  23:45  
Things so further down, review, it's got Okay, discuss, freaks, waveform, spend on M times f alone, trying to go domain, choices, brings domain recommended products.

Unknown Speaker  24:10  
That's crazy. I only said Alessio. It's just interesting to okay,

Unknown Speaker  24:33  
this is just so this is an example. I mean, Claude helped me write this test case. I'm hoping it will actually be useful. This is a mismatch test. I fixed their x as n are title v3 another catchy name. And I mean, the most important thing is a it has code for computing the matches. It's very simple. It's just like, h1 times h2 divided by PSD, like, that's it. And then real part of that. And here's an example of, like, how to call Lau. So you call it in a very simple way. You have the two masses, you know, here are two spins, you know, inclination, phase. You can set all of these, you know, F, min, F, Max, reference, frequency. You call them on, like, a bunch of parameter points, and that's kind of it, right? So all Lao calls look something like this. That gives you h plus h cross, and then you return, you know, frequencies h plus h cross, that's the call from LAO. So all of this is, like, very well documented, and it won't. It doesn't need to do anything different. It just needs to change this to xphn, that's it,

Unknown Speaker  25:55  
sure. I is there? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  26:08  
I mean, we can call ripple, but we don't actually need to call ripple waveforms because they don't have XP ATM. So that's

Unknown Speaker  26:14  
kind of the point. And just focusing on cnh files are still 66 million tokens.

Unknown Speaker  26:22  
Yeah, Lao is a real mess. This is where you need a little like Lao bot that knows what part of Lao simulation to action. Honestly, we shouldn't need smashing loud to inside, yeah, send

Unknown Speaker  26:46  
the rest, including tech files and Docs, to Gemini, yeah, and ask it to make a clear plan.

Unknown Speaker  27:06  
It should be very

Unknown Speaker  27:14  
detailed. Revise that. Prediction.

Unknown Speaker  27:26  
Yeah, this has quite useful thoughts. I

Unknown Speaker  27:44  
apart from they screwed up the parameterization that they'll be for you. Example. This

Unknown Speaker  28:09  
weekend, I dramatically, after you showed me the context command, I dramatically slimmed down. Yeah, I basically don't load anything by default. Now also, I found it so because I there are some things that I do use in every single session, yeah, but even they were, like, four times too long. No, it's crazy,

Unknown Speaker  28:27  
right? Yeah?

Unknown Speaker  28:36  
Cool, yeah. Yeah, and then with the museum. Good Morning, people might be

Unknown Speaker  29:48  
the Camera, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  30:22  
sometimes it's super dumb. I

Unknown Speaker  30:28  
tried to bait it. Also, when I worked with tibe, I was like, this is the one like, this is where I'm gonna choose to continue using you as a product you really need to impress. Didn't go very well for the first half an hour.

Unknown Speaker  30:46  
So did you make use of the the free tokens and tickets things?

Unknown Speaker  30:53  
No, we just sat together on Zoom. I mean, I can do but no, why

Unknown Speaker  30:58  
not? That's not something to hoard. No, definitely

Unknown Speaker  31:08  
not. Okay, nice. No, I've got a new project plan over there Christmas to get Flix hooked on it, which is Ina, set up some webcams at each room, and they're going to track Ethelbert, and it's gonna, it's gonna, you know, send the, you know, five seconds or so, send it to a visual model and say, Is there a cat? And if there is a cat, it's gonna switch the live video feed to that room. Please do not tell phone. It'd be cool.

Unknown Speaker  31:39  
No, I Yeah, Okay, okay, good. It's to spend.

Unknown Speaker  32:28  
Think whilst it's doing that make a

Unknown Speaker  32:41  
record of the steps.

Unknown Speaker  33:01  
I course, should

Unknown Speaker  33:08  
include things like references to files and folders downloaded, and should be more i It

Unknown Speaker  33:20  
will be more narrative. No, I think it's good. One thing that we should remind ourselves is we should save all the clawed conversation. I mean, just just a reminder. Usually you can kind of dig in and find it anyway, but it's easier if you just export it when you go, when we go to the office, you can go into Tony mode. I think

Unknown Speaker  33:54  
it'd be more annoying.

Unknown Speaker  34:01  
So after Travis, neural network, plaques and

Unknown Speaker  34:08  
jacks, yeah, fine. I mean, that's that's a standard choice. The

Unknown Speaker  34:11  
stuff where the physics comes in is the data generation pipeline. So, yeah, we'll be generating training data using last week's grid strategy. Log space, grid dimensions x and f, brown space, eta, chi, 1z, chi, 2z,

Unknown Speaker  34:42  
hi, yeah, to be honest, we might even be able to just skip ahead to xphm. I'm kind of tempted, rather than doing the So, one reason I wouldn't use xas is you can call xphm with a line spins, and that reduces to xhm. Do, xhn, so, I mean, this is proper technicality. But the point being is that if you, I mean, we can look at these plots afterwards, but if you don't have the higher modes, and you don't have the wiggles at high frequency, and then, you know, it is a lot smoother. It's the reason why the waveform people get super angry if you don't include higher modes. And you're like, Oh, it does kind of look different. Then you realize the noise floor is like, nowhere near

Unknown Speaker  35:39  
that. But, sure, but you know, we can still make the problem simpler from the dimensionality point of view without really compromising on the waveform fidelity. We're just, you're just running that waveform in a restricted setting. But I think we can always work with xphm. I think a lot of this is obviously us updating our neural nets on the fly.

Unknown Speaker  36:03  
Okay, so do we want to steer that that way then? So, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  36:06  
okay. I think just by default today, we run everything on XP, hm, and we see how far we can get. And the aligned spins is kind of the minimal case, but we might be able to push further.

Unknown Speaker  36:20  
You? On solid. I

Unknown Speaker  37:11  
mean, they crushed it. Like whoever done with that, just

Unknown Speaker  37:22  
nailed it. Yeah, is this what you meant? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  37:33  
Sarah, continue. Where

Unknown Speaker  38:02  
are you gonna make the call? I'll go to my old college office, because then I can go with you. What I would do during that time is given this framework, obviously I mean, I'll clone it. I will then start a Claude session where I ask it to follow the data generation steps, and I kind of won't do anything. I'll let it do that relatively. I'll tell it about the structure that it has, and then we should have some age, get five files that we can use for training. How? I mean, I guess before then,

Unknown Speaker  38:45  
I think things to check would be what really we're going to run on, possibly by looking at those pages, right?

Unknown Speaker  38:51  
Yeah, it'd be nice to have some. Actually, I just make some of those kind of summary plots as well. Where'd you say? Okay, here's my reference thing. What happens if I change ether, okay, does this? What happens as I change fine, does that? How are you going to record this? I will just do it in

Unknown Speaker  39:19  
four. I'll clone the repo that you've got, and then, because I don't need to say anything,

Unknown Speaker  39:28  
and I'll just say, you know, follow the documentation strategies. It's already there and maybe get it to make a file that's like, hand over instructions. I

Unknown Speaker  39:35  
mean, that's kind of what the pool for mg is, sure, yeah, so, but Mate, I'm just saying, like, making clear that we're going to be passing it back and forth. Passing it back and forth to somebody different. Yeah, please

Unknown Speaker  39:53  
write. The instructions, yeah, that's how the that Claude Quick Start automation, one work where basically it just updates the kind of running file of handovers. And it is pretty clean, like, Okay, I think this is a good start.

Unknown Speaker  40:21  
I think this is natural breakpoints I would like to Yeah,

Miles Cranmer  40:27  
fuck it. Now.

Unknown Speaker  40:30  
It is crazy. It's crazy.

Unknown Speaker  40:40  
Do I have access to that gear? Gym?

Unknown Speaker  40:44  
Emulated, save that i.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
